# Update 2025-04

## Security Developer-in-Residence (Seth Larson)

### SBOMs for Python packages

PEP 770 was **[accepted on April 11th by Brett Cannon](https://discuss.python.org/t/pep-770-improving-measurability-of-python-packages-with-software-bill-of-materials/76308/112)**, this means
that tools can begin implementing the PEP and that the proposal
can be moved to being a packaging standard. Seth created a pull
request [adding the standard to the specifications section](https://github.com/pypa/packaging.python.org/pull/1853) of packaging.python.org.

Seth created a [pull request](https://github.com/pypa/auditwheel/pull/577) which adds support for generating SBOM documents
for libraries that are bundled into wheels. A [tracking issue was created for Maturin](https://github.com/PyO3/maturin/issues/2554) (Rust)
so that the cryptography (and other) libraries that compile and bundle Rust libraries.

This topic is the subject of two upcoming talks, one at PyCon US and one at Open Source Summit.

### NSF Safe-OSE Grant Submission

Seth and Loren completed the submission for the NSF Safe-OSE grant on April 22nd.
The next update will come in approximately six months if we hear back that we've
been selected.

### PyCon US 2025

Seth published a [collection of security-related events](https://sethmlarson.dev/pycon-us-2025-security-mini-summit) to his blog,
including details on the security mini summit, "meet the experts",
and security talks.

Seth was also invited to join the AWS Keynote Sponsor slot with Alpha-Omega
and Michael Winser. Seth prepared a few minutes of talking about the importance
of conferences like PyCon US for ecosystem security.

Seth is working on presentations for multiple talks:

* Alpha-Omega Sponsored Talk slot with Michael Winser and Mike Fiedler
* Phantom Dependencies: is your requirements.txt haunted?
* Update on the EU Cyber Resilience Act

Seth is also preparing to be the blogger for the Python Langauge Summit
where many topics are covered by core developers.

### Other items

* Seth was credited with the term "slopsquatting" which is squatting a package name
  that's been hallucinated by an LLM. There's a [Wikipedia entry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slopsquatting) and many articles.
* Seth had talks accepted to the Open Source Summit NA, OpenSSF Community Day, and had his OpenSSF Community Day talk made the keynote.
* Handling vulnerability reports to the PSRT.
* Published "whichprovides" 0.4.0 with support for multiple paths in a single call.
* Added support for generating an SBOM document to "vendoring" project for use
  by pip for bundling its dependencies.
* Attended OSCSE session and Alpha-Omega public meeting.
* Registered for the GitHub Maintainer Summit.
* Talked with Tom Aldrich about adding PURL to CVE ahead of VulnCon.
